Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to go over the solutions for the name pie exercises.
Let's head over to the exercise notebook and get started.
OK the first thing you had to do was import none pi as MP and then we were asked to create an array
of zeros.
Keep in mind there's probably multiple solutions for each of these questions but in general we'll try
to do the simplest ones so and P zeros we want 10 of them we just as you say and P zeros 10 same thing
for once we just say and P that ones and then pass and 10.
So here we see the 10 ones for fives.
There's lots of different ways you can do this.
You can either say end p ones 10 and then add four to it or multiply it by five.
So lots of different ways to do this.
Create an array of integers from 10 to 50.
So again different ways you can do this.
One way is to simply use MP range and then go from 10 all the way up to but not including 50 one and
that will get you 10 for 50 all the integers they're 6 was to create an array of all the even integers
from 10 to 50.
Same approach except this time we'll add in the step size of two.
And here we can see that even numbers.
Next we wanted to create a three by three matrix of values ranging from 0 to 8.
So different ways we can do this.
One way is to first say and arrange nine and that'll get thus the actual values and then we can call
reshape off of this as a three by three.
And then we have 0 through 8.
So you can actually stack these sort of method calls or if you want you can use assignment as well she
could say something like arrays equal to N.P. arrange and then reshape like this.
And that's the same thing.
You can either stack them or have them in multiple steps.
It's really up to you.
Now we wanted to create a three by three identity matrix that's just gonna be NPI with a three and the
next one was to use an umpire to generate a random number between 0 and 1.
For that we simply use NDP thought random thought random passing one and there's our random number.
Next we wanted to use an umpire to generate 25 random numbers sample from a standard normal distribution.
Remember that's going to be any random dot Rand and twenty five for twenty five nos for this one wanted
to create this following matrix.
So it's a little tricky but basically you have to realize that we're going from zero point zero one
to zero point zero two to zero point zero three.
So it looks like our step size is Point Zero 1 and there's actually lots of different ways you can do
this but one kind of clever way to do this is by saying NPR range from 1 to 1 to 1 and if you do this
you'll notice you now have the same values one two three four etc. except we're just off by two decimal
places.
So then we could say divide this by one hundred and now we have the correct values except notice the
shape here.
This is just a single array so we can see there's one square bracket but it looks like we need this
in two dimensions.
So I'm going to assign this as an array and then I will reshape this to be a 10 by 10 and now we have
the same array.
And if you want you can do this all in one step as well as shown in the solutions notebook.
Next we wanted to create an array of 20 linearly spaced points between 0 and 1 for this.
Basically just call in space go from 0 to 1 and ask for 20 points linearly spaced after that we had
num pi indexing and selection.
So we run the cell.
So this is our starting matrix.
So we go ahead and run that.
So now we've defined this matrix and X is the write code that reproduces the output shown below.
So if we take a look here we want to grab twelve thirteen fourteen fifteen so looks we want to grab
this chunk for these three rows.
So how do we do this.
We simply say the matrix object and for the first one we're gonna start at row two and then go all the
way to the end so here I can see I have those last three rows.
Then for the columns what I want to do is start a column one colon and then go all the way to the end
that way.
So that now gives me that same block of that name pyrite next was to write code that produces the output
shown below which is just a single 20 for this.
We simply had to call the index location which is at row three column four.
You get 20 and then finally this one's a little trickier but the right code that reproduces to 712.
We take a look at our original Matrix 2 7 is right here to 7 12.
So we apply the same logic.
We're gonna grab all the rows starting at the beginning all the way up to row 3.
So we take a look at that we have the rows that contain 2 7 12 and then we actually just want a single
column which you can grab as a slice from one colon all the way up to be including two.
So that's just gonna be one.
If you were to only provide one like this that would actually give you the values.
However it wouldn't give it to you in the same shape so you'd have to use slicing if you wanted to retain
that original two dimensional shape next.
Want to write code that reproduces the output shown below here.
21 22 23 24.
That's simply Matt for so row for all the columns.
That's the same thing.
And you could also just said if we write Matt for here this is the same values.
So up to you which way you want it.
Jus next to write code that reproduces this below.
Very similar thing we say from rows three or five.
Give me all the columns or you could've said rows three to five.
This way is the same thing either way.
Okay.
Finally we have some number of operations which is the get the sum of all the values in Matt.
So that's simply going to be Matt some thirty twenty five to get the standard deviation.
And for this you had to check the notebook it was referenced there but it's going to be SD 4 standard
deviation.
Again we mentioned that there's a link there for all the universal array functions that exist for another
pie and then to get the sum of all the columns in Matt we simply had to say Matt some access equal to
zero and then finally for the bonus question.
So we worked a lot of random data num pi.
Is there a way we can always ensure we get the same ran the numbers.
You can click here for hints but we also mentioned this during the lecture and that's simply to say
NDP thought random that scene and then pass in some arbitrary number choice.
And then if you're following along with me and you ask for some random number it should give you this
exact number.
If you run these both in the same cell as I did.
Okay that's it for the NUM pi exercises don't worry too much if you weren't able to get all the indexing
and selection exercise for the two dimensional arrays.
We won't be doing that too often throughout the course.
Instead just focus on the concept of being able to take slices from one dimensional arrays since typically
our time series data will just be a single one dimensional array.
That's time stamped thanks and we'll see you at the next section of the course.